Amazon EC2 provides sclable computing capacity in the AWS Cloud. 
You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need. 
Configure Security and networking and manage storage.
Amazon EC2 enables you to scale up or scale down the instance. 
Amazon EC2 is having two storage options i.e. EBS  & instance store.
Pre Configured Templates are available Known as Amazon Machine Image.
By Defualt, When you create on EC2 instance Account with amazon. Your account is limited to a maximum of 20 instances per EC2 Region with two defualt High I/O instances.

Types of EC2 Instances -
Genreal Purpose - Balnaced memmory & CPU 
Computed Optimized - More CPU than RAM 
Storage Optimized - More RAM
Accelerated Computing / GPU - Graphic Optimized 
High Memory - Low latency 
High Memory Optimized - High RAM , Nitro System ( a kind of specific hypervisor ) 

General Purpose Instance
General purpose instances provides  a Balance of Compute, Memory and Networking Resources and can be used variety of workloads.

3 Series of general purpose 
A Series ( Medium, Large ) - A1 
M Series ( Large ) - M4, M5 , M5a , M5a, M5d
T Series  - T2 ( t2.micro - free tier eligiable ), T3 , T3a 

Instances available in Fours Sizes - nano , small , medium , large

A1 - Instances 
A1 - instances are ideally suited for scale-out workloads that are supported by the ARM Eco System 

These instaces are well-suited for the following application
1. Webserver
2. Containerized micro services 
3. caching fleets ( High-Speed data storage layer , its kind of caching data that gonna use frequentally)
4. Distributed data stores 
5. Application that requires ARM Instruction Set

M4, M5 , (M5ad and M5d) recentally added.

M4 instance
The new MY instances fetures a Custom Intel Xeon E5 - 2676 V3 Haswell processor Optimized Specifically for EC2.
VCPU - 2 to 40 ( Max )
RAM - 8 GB to 160 GB ( Max )
Instance Storage - EBS only ( Root Voloume )

M5, M5a , M5ad and M5d Instances - These instances provide an ideal cloud infra , offering a Balance of compute , memory and Networking Resources for a Broad ranges of 
applications.
Used In - Gaming Server, Web Server, Small and Medium Databases 
VCPU - 2 to 96 ( Max )
RAM - 8 to 384 ( Max)
Instance storage - EBS & NVMe SSD

T2 , T3 and T3a Instances 
These instances provide a baseline level of CPU performance (5 % to 40 %) with the ability to burst to a higher level when Required by your Workload.
An unlimited instances can sustain high CPU performace for any period of time whenever required. 
VCPU - 2 to 8
RAM - 0.5 to 32 GB

Used in- 
1. Website and Webapp 
2. Code Repositories 
3. Development , Build and Test 
4. Microservices 

Compute Optimized Instances ( C - Series )
Compute optimized instances are ideal for compute -bound applications that benefits from high  perormance processors:-
Thre Type are availbale - C4, C5 , C5n 
C4 Intances - are optimized for compute Intensive workloads and deliver very cost effctive high performance at a low price per compute ratio.
VCPU - 2 to 36
RAM - 3.75 to 60 GB
Storage - EBS Only 
Network B.W. - 10 Gbps 
Use cases - Web Server, Batch processing , MMO Gaming , Video Encoding

C5 Instances - C5 are optimized for Compute-intensive Workloads and Cost-effective  high performance at low price per Compute Ratio.
--> Powered by AWS nitro System 
CPU - 2 to 72 , RAM -> 4 to 192 GB
Network Bandwidth - upto 25 GBPS 
Storage - EBS only & NVMe SSD
Use Cases- High Performance Web Server , Gaming , Video Encoding 

Note - C5 Support max 25 EBS Volumes
       C5 use Elastic network Adoptor 
       C5 uses new EC2 Hypervisor
       
       
Memory Optimized ( R series X Series Z Series )

Memory Optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large data sets in Memory.

R4, R5 ,R5a, R5ad and R5d
High Performance , Relational (MySQL ) and NOSQL (MongoDB , Cassandra) databases.
Distributed Web Sacle Cache stores that provide in-memory caching of key value type data
Used in Financial Services, Hadoop 

VCPU - 2 to 96
RAM - 16 to 768 GB
Instance Storage - EBS Only & NVMe SSD 


X1, X1e Instances 
Well suited for high performance databses, Memory intensive enterprise application , Relational Databases Workoad , SAP HANA
Electronic Design Automation 
VCPU - 4 to 128
RAM - 122 to 3904 GB
Instance Storage - SSD


Z1d Instances 
High Frequency Z1d delivers a Sustained all core frquency of upto 4.0 Ghz, the fastest of any cloud inatances 
AWS Nitro System,Xeon Processor , Upto 1.8 TB of instance storage
VCPU - 2 to 48
RAM - 16 to 384 GB
Storage - NVM SSD

Use Cases - Electronic Design Automation and Certain Databes Workloads with high per-core licensing Cost.


Storage Optimized Instances ( I Series, D Series, H Series ) 
Storage optimized instances are desigened for workloads that require high, Sequential Read and Write access to very large data sets on local Storage. 
They  are optimized to deliver tens of thousands of Low Latency, Random I/O Operations per Second (IOPS) to application. 

D2 Inatances 
Well suited for the following -
Massive Parallel  Processing (MPP) data Warehouse.
MAP Reduce and Hadoop  distributed Computing
Log or data Processing app 

VCPU - 4 to 36
RAM - 30.5 to 244 GB
Storage - SSD

H1 Intances 
This Family features upto 16 TB of HDD based local storage, high disk throghput and balance of Compute & Memory 
Well suited for App requiring Sequential access to large amounts of data on direct- attached instance storag.
Application that requires high throughput access to large Quantities of data
VCPU - 8 to 64 
RAM - 32 to 256 GB
Storage - HDD


I3 and I3en  Inatances 
Well suited for 
High frequency online transaction processing System ( OLTP )
Relational Databses 
--> NoSQL databses 
-->  Distributed File System
--> Data Warehousing aaplication

VCPU - 2 to 96
RAM - 16 to 768 GB
local storage - NVMe SSD
Networking Performance - 25 GBPS to 100 GBPS 
Sequential Throughput 
Read - 16 GB/S
Write - 64 GB/S (I3 )
        8 GB/S (I3en)
        
        
        
